README.md, before:

# EXIFExtractor
Python application to download images from S3, extract exif information from each picture and store it to sqlite DB. What is EXIF? See [here](http://www.howtogeek.com/203592/what-is-exif-data-and-how-to-remove-it)

## Concept

Boto library is used for handling interaction with S3. After listing all files in the bucket, celery background task is responsible for downloading and processing each individual image. I am using [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.1.x) for extracting the exif information from image. Sqlite DB is used for storing image data. EXIF information is stored as serialized dictionary in DB.

RabbitMq task queue is used with celery for queueing tasks. Celery gives some other options like redis too. Please look at celery docs for that.

Due to shortage of time 
No tests, No logging (Just print), No detailed exception handling

## Development Environment

At the bare minimum you'll need the following for your development environment:

1. [Python](http://www.python.org)
2. [Sqlite](https://sqlite.org)
2. [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com)

### Local Setup

The following assumes you have all of the recommended tools listed above installed.

#### 1. Clone the project:

    $ git clone git@github.com/syedwaseemjan/EXIFExtractor.git
    $ cd EXIFExtractor

#### 2. Create and initialize virtualenv for the project:

    $ mkdir exif_extractor
    $ virtualenv exif_extractor
    $ source exif_extractor/bin/activate
    $ pip install -r requirements.py

    I am using [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.1.x) for extracting exif information from images. If you find any issue during its installation try upgrading your pip. (That worked for me atleast)
    $ pip install --upgrade pip


#### 3. Run the celery background task:

    $ celery -A tasks worker --loglevel=info

#### 4. Run the application:

    $ python app.py

### References:
1. https://gist.github.com/alwaysunday/db0b32f5ce0538afbb75ccf143adf116
2. http://stackoverflow.com/a/1254499/818731 (For strings decoding. Some of the extracted information consists of some special characters.)

Commit message:

you can enter your own bucket from command line

README.md, after:

# EXIFExtractor
Python application to download images from S3, extract exif information from each picture and store it to sqlite DB. What is EXIF? See [here](http://www.howtogeek.com/203592/what-is-exif-data-and-how-to-remove-it)

## Concept

Boto library is used for handling interaction with S3. After listing all files in the bucket, celery background task is responsible for downloading and processing each individual image. I am using [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.1.x) for extracting the exif information from image. Sqlite DB is used for storing image data. EXIF information is stored as serialized dictionary in DB.

RabbitMq task queue is used with celery for queueing tasks. Celery gives some other options like redis too. Please look at celery docs for that.

Due to shortage of time 
No tests, No logging (Just print), No detailed exception handling

## Development Environment

At the bare minimum you'll need the following for your development environment:

1. [Python](http://www.python.org)
2. [Sqlite](https://sqlite.org)
2. [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com)

### Local Setup

The following assumes you have all of the recommended tools listed above installed.

#### 1. Clone the project:

    $ git clone git@github.com/syedwaseemjan/EXIFExtractor.git
    $ cd EXIFExtractor

#### 2. Create and initialize virtualenv for the project:

    $ mkdir exif_extractor
    $ virtualenv exif_extractor
    $ source exif_extractor/bin/activate
    $ pip install -r requirements.py

    I am using [Pillow](https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.1.x) for extracting exif information from images. If you find any issue during its installation try upgrading your pip. (That worked for me atleast)
    $ pip install --upgrade pip


#### 3. Run the celery background task:

    $ celery -A tasks worker --loglevel=info

#### 4. Run the application:

    $ python app.py

    Default bucket is "waldo-recruiting" but you can use any other. Use

    $ python app.py <Your-Bucket-Name>

### References:
1. https://gist.github.com/alwaysunday/db0b32f5ce0538afbb75ccf143adf116
2. http://stackoverflow.com/a/1254499/818731 (For strings decoding. Some of the extracted information consists of some special characters.)
